Worldwide Edu Consultants
9000133866 “The Information Hub for Students” www.wweconline.com
USA STUDENT VISA INTERVIEW
I Confidence I Communication I Clarity I
Worldwide Edu Consultants
9000133866 “The Information Hub for Students” www.wweconline.com
Contents
I - Top 50 F1 Visa questions & answers
Country related
University related
Financial related
Family related
Work related
General Questions
II – Do’s & Don’ts during F1 visa interview
III – Ideas to convince Visa Officer
IV – How to dress up for F1 visa interview
The questions and answers presented in this document are more generalized and should only be
used as reference. You should not use the same answers during your visa interview. Please note,
this document has been downloaded by hundreds of student everyday and giving the same
answer will have negative outcome.
If you need personalized assistance with F1 visa training please contact:
venkat@wweconline.com or Mobile: +91-9000133866
Worldwide Edu Consultants
9000133866 “The Information Hub for Students” www.wweconline.com
Top 50 F1 Visa questions & answers
Country Related
1) Why are you going to US?
This is a straight forward question and nearly 90% of students get this question as a starter. So
how can you provide yourself a good start? Be confident and look into VO eyes before
answering. Don’t rush for answers. It’s ok to take 2 sec’s before you can answer. A good
answer would be
To study masters in chemical Engineering at Texas Tech University
2) This subjects are taught in India why specifically US?
Before you answer this question you need to know more about your university and your
program you are planning to attend. Browse through the university website and you will find
answer. Your answer should be mid-level technical answer. In other words, your answer should
include technical details to a level that VO will understand. Make sure you don’t give too many
details or talk too much. The best answer would be
Universities in US, especially Texas Tech offer specialization in my area of interest and has
strong research faculty. I am planning to major in operations research and simulation modeling
techniques which are not offered in my country. Moreover, I will gain international experience
and will be a valuable asset when I return to my country
From above example see how a technical detail is included. Also try to use words like “when I
return to my country”. This is where you tell VO that you intend to return back to your country
after completing your studies which is very critical to visa approval.
University Related
3. Which universities accepted you?
Try to give 3-4 universities. Don’t say this is the only one I got. Also don’t give any information
on universities that you got rejected unless asked.
Texas Tech University, North Carolina University, University of Idaho
4. Where did you complete your Bachelor’s degree?
Just tell where you graduated from. Again don’t get excited and talk about your percentage and
how great you did in bachelors. The best answer would be
I graduated from Jawaharlal Nehru University
It’s ok to say when you graduated if you want to
Worldwide Edu Consultants
9000133866 “The Information Hub for Students” www.wweconline.com
I graduated from Jawaharlal Nehru University in 2010
5. What is your Percentage?
64.3 Percentage
Give decimal. This will give an impression to VO that you are precise
6. Tell me about the university you are going?
Obviously, you need to know good things about your university. Giving statistics will certainly
impress VO
• My university ranks 4th in Operations research according to Forbes magazine in 2010
and
• Supports approximately 1.2 million in research in this field.
• Texas Tech professors hold publications at international level and some of their
researches are implemented in UN army.
• Above, this TTU offers multicultural student community from more than 56 countries that
I am really proud to be part off.
4 – 5 strong statistical details would be good enough
7. Mention some professor’s names?
Dr. John Smith, Dr. Mike Kobza, Dr. Henry Neugen
Always mention “DR” before name and tell professors full name as Dr. John Smith
8. When did you get your bachelor’s degree?
I graduated in 2010
This should be good. Again please keep in mind, if you are a talkative person this is not the
place to talk too much…Give answer in 1 line unless asked to explain.
9. Why did you select this university over other universities?
• Outstanding faculty reputation
• Active research in my field of specialization
• Tuition and living cost is less compared to other universities and
• Certainly a beautiful campus to study
You should give at least 4 strong reasons.2-3 will not be sufficient. You should be loud enough
when you communicate with VO. That will show that you are confident. Not too loud
10. How long will you study in USA?
Till May 2012.
Worldwide Edu Consultants
9000133866 “The Information Hub for Students” www.wweconline.com
For masters usually it’s 2 years. You should see duration of course in I-20.Tell exactly the
month and year.
If you are undergrad “Till May 2014”
For PhD the time varies from 3-5 years depending on reseach.4 years would be ideal.
11. Where did you hear about this university?
• I came to know about this university through my undergrad professor who did his PhD in
this University.
• I came to know about this university through my senior who graduated from this
university.
• I came to know about this university through a college fair last year held in Chennai.
Any of the 3 answers would be good. Please provide only 1 line answer as much as possible
12. What is your academic background?
• I graduated with Mechanical Engineering and planning to specialize in Operation
research
• I graduated with civil engineering and planning to specialize in environmental
engineering
• I graduated in Physics and planning to specialize in atomic physics
Any of the 3 answers would be good. Please provide only 1 line answer as much as possible
13. Do you plan to study Ph D after MS?
Say “YES” if you are planning for a PhD or “NO” if you are not. Your answer should be in a
single line. Try to avoid single word answers like ‘YES” and “NO”. Your answer should be
“NO” I don’t have any such plans at this time.
Your answer should not be derived from question such as NO I am not planning to study PhD
after MS
14. Why did you apply to these universities?
• All the universities I applied are public universities and are actively conducting research
in my area.
• These universities ranks within top 50 in my field of study
• The courses offered from these universities are more in line with my future goals and
To answer this question you need know more about universities that you applied. Scan through
University website and you will find strong answers. Always give at least 3-4 good reasons.
15. Who is sponsoring you?
My Dad
Only 1 line answer
Worldwide Edu Consultants
9000133866 “The Information Hub for Students” www.wweconline.com
16. What does your father do?
He is an architect
It’s ok to tell where he working
He is an architect with L&T
17. What is your father’s income?
He earns 12.3 lakhs per year
Try to be precise. This will tell VO that you are prepared.
18. What is your university yearly expense?
Give the exact number as in I-20.
My Tuition is $ 6320 and my Total expense is $11,415 per year.
Always say the figure for a year
19. Have you got any loans?
Say “YES” if you got one or “NO” IF doesn’t have
• YES Sir, I am took loans from SBI
• NO Sir, I haven’t taken any loans. My dad is sponsoring my education
20. Show your Pass Book/ Bank Statement?
Show your passbook. Your passbook should have sufficient number of transactions and
recommended bank statement amount is 1.28 * yearly expenses in I-20.
21. How will you finance your education?
My dad is sponsoring me for my 1year and I am taking loan from SBI for my 2nd year
Carry documents related to loans. Loan application not accepted. Loans should be approved
and should be ready to use
22. Your passbook shows that a large amount of money has recently been deposited?
How do you explain that?
• We recently sold one of our land/Property to finance my education. That’s what you see
in passbook.
• My dad recently received a savings from PF and he plans to utilize for my education.
That’s what you see in passbook
You should carry documentary evidence to prove whatever you are saying
Worldwide Edu Consultants
9000133866 “The Information Hub for Students” www.wweconline.com
23. What is your father’s salary? / How long has he been working here?
He earns 12.3 lakhs per year. He has been with L & T for 14 years.
Family Related
24. How many brother and sisters do you have?
I have 2 elder brothers and 1 younger sister
Be precise. Include whether they are elder or younger in your answer. Don’t just say 2 brothers
and 1 sister
25. Do you have any relatives in USA?
Say “YES” if you have any relatives or “NO” if you don’t have one.
• YES I have a distant cousin in Seattle working with Microsoft.
• NO I am the first one to study in US in my family
I have 2 brothers in New York and a sister working in Microsoft is way too much. So avoid such
answers.
Please note more relatives and siblings already settled in US implies that you “MAY” also settle
in US, that might lead to 214(b) potential immigrant
26. What is your mother?
• She is a home maker
• She helps my dad in his business
• She is a nurse in Apollo Hospital
Keep it simple.
27. Where did your brothers/sisters complete their studies?
My elder brother completed his B.Tech in Pune University and my elder brother is still in high
school
If your siblings have completed any of their degree in US. Then
My elder brother completed his MS from University of Alabama now he is assisting my dad in
his business here.
The idea is to turn the negative scenario to your favor. Even though your brother completed
studies in US he returned back to his country, which is a good thing.
28. Where do your parents live?
Worldwide Edu Consultants
9000133866 “The Information Hub for Students” www.wweconline.com
They both live here in Chennai
29. Do you have a brother/ sister, or any other relative already at this university?
• “NO” none of my siblings study in this university
• “YES” my cousin does his PhD in chemistry in Texas Tech
Work Related
30. Why are you leaving you current job? (if you are working)
To do Master’s in Mechanical Engineering at Texas Tech University
31. Show your experience certificate?
Make sure you carry an experience certificate showing the number of years you worked, salary
in employers letter head
32. Are you planning to work after graduation?
The best answer would be
“YES” I am planning to work for 1year during my OPT before I return to my country.
(This is a honest answer and make sure you use the word during my OPT period which is F1
status)
Avoid giving answers like this.
“NO” I will return back to my country after my graduation (even though you may...it will create
skeptism in VO’s mind)
“NO” I planning to work for 2-5 years before I return to my country (The goal of F1 visa is only to
study in US. If you have plans to work after graduation...your intention is clear to VO)
33. How a US degree will help you to find a job here?
Work Related
Getting an international degree from US will not only heighten my technical knowledge, but also
will give an edge over others when I apply for Jobs here. I will have unique skills and experience
including working in a multicultural environment and strong
General Questions
34. What kind of good things do you know about America?
• Majority of scientists who receives noble price, which is the highest in the world are from
US.
• Interstate highway system that’s been backbone to US economy
• Entrepreneurs who started Google & Face book are from US
Worldwide Edu Consultants
9000133866 “The Information Hub for Students” www.wweconline.com
3 things should be good enough
35. What do you expect after returning back?
I expect to work for a multinational company at mid-level position for 5-7 years and I am
planning to start my own software development firm.
I am planning to help my dad in his textile business and I want his business to take it to next
level after I return
Any strong 2 line positive statement would be good.
36. Why do you plan to do MS?
• First, I will get the best international education in my field.
• Second, I will posses up-to-date recent technical skills to compete with others here
• Third, my overall personality will improve interacting with professors and students of
International caliber.
37. Why are your GRE/ TOEFL scores low?
Don’t give a lame excuse
I believe most of it is due to course work load during my final semester. I have to do my final
year project, 6 courses in addition to preparing for GRE/TOEFL. That was a good experience
and I am learning how to better manage multiple things.
Make sure you include that you are learning from the mistakes that you have done. The last line
is critical to this answer.
38. You look like a potential immigrant or I don’t think you will come back?
VO is trying to stir what you think. So take a 2-3 sec breath. Don’t panic. You just have to give a
strong reason that you will come back after your studies.
Sir, all my family members are married and settled in Chennai. My dad owns a textile industry
and I am the only hope for him to run his business and that’s the reason he is sending me to
gain the best education.
Sir, my sisters are married and settled in different cities in India. I am the only hope for my
parents to take care of them after they retire in next 2 years. As a son, I want to carry my
parents burden during their old age.
2 lines should be sufficient. Don’t extend your answer and talk too much.
General Questions
39. What do you know about US education?
• US education is more focused towards practical curriculum than the theoretical
knowledge
• US education will provide a challenging environment during my course work to come up
Worldwide Edu Consultants
9000133866 “The Information Hub for Students” www.wweconline.com
with new ideas in my research field
• Public university Student-Professor Ratio is 17:1 which is best compared to any other
country
You need to give at least 2-3 strong information about US.
40. Why are you applying for Fall only?
I completed my bachelors in May and I want to start my masters immediately in Fall. I just don’t
want to wait till spring
The course Advanced VLSI Design is offered only in fall and that’s one of the course I intend to
take to improve my technical skills
41. What will you do after completing MS? What are your plans after graduation?
VO is asking for short term goals in this question
My immediate goal is to find a mid-level career position in Chennai with a multinational IT
company after competing MS
My goal is to give a smallest and most efficient electronic chip to humankind. Hence I am
planning to continue my career with a PhD
Use similar goals in your field
42. Did you get any scholarship?
• “YES” I received partial scholarship that will cover 50% of my tuition
• “NO” I didn’t receive any scholarships
43. Tell me how you can prove that you are going to come back?
Same as answer 38
VO is trying to stir what you think. So take a 2-3 sec breath. Don’t panic. You just have to give a
strong reason that you will come back after your studies.
Sir, all my family members are married and settled in Chennai. My dad owns a textile industry
and I am the only hope for him to run his business and that’s the reason he is sending me to
gain the best education
Sir, my sisters are married and settled in different cities in India. I am the only hope for my
parents to take care of them after they retire in next 2 years. As a son, I want to carry my
parent’s burden during their old age.
2 lines should be sufficient. Don’t extend your answer and talk too much.
44. Have you ever been to US?
• “NO” Sir. This is my first visit
• “YES” Sir. I have been to US once for a trip.
Worldwide Edu Consultants
9000133866 “The Information Hub for Students” www.wweconline.com
45. What will you do after coming back?
Same as answer 41
My immediate goal is to find a mid-level career position in Chennai with a multinational IT
company after completing MS
I am planning to assist my dad in his Textiles business for couple of years, before I can take
responsibility in his organization.
46. Do you know anyone in your university?
“YES” one of my senior is majoring in chemistry in this university and helping me to find
Accommodation
“NO” I don’t know anyone in this university
47. What will you do if your visa is rejected?
Again don’t panic. He just likes to know what your plan is if your visa is rejected. Take 2 -3 sec’s
before answering. Look into VO’s eyes and answer confidently.
• I will improve my profile and will apply again (if you are planning to apply again)
• Studying in US has been my dream from my childhood. I haven’t decided anything yet.
(If you are not planning to apply again)
48. Will you come home during summer?
• “YES” I am planning to visit my parents
• “NO” I am planning to take courses
49. Why do you think the university is giving you a scholarship?
I believe it’s due to International level publication I had in my resume and also may be due to be
strong academic records.
50. Why did you change your field from Electrical Engg to Computer science?
Most of the courses I am planning to take are offered in computer science department such as
embedded system design. I might take very few courses in Electrical Engineering department
as well
Worldwide Edu Consultants
9000133866 “The Information Hub for Students” www.wweconline.com
Do’s & Don’ts during F1 interview
Before I write on tips, let me brief you how important is one’s body language during F1 Interview especially when
you stand at the front of the line and you are expecting you to be called. When you stand at the front of the line,
there will be 4-5 counters where interview will be going on. You can be called from any of the counters. VO will
look into you before you are called. It’s really important you maintain good body language. Body confidence
doesn’t come overnight. It should be developed overtime. However, nearly 90% of students don’t possess right body
language. At least try to develop these habits a month before you go for interview. Following these tips on the
interview day will make you look artificial, so practice well in advance. Here are few tips to show body confidence.
No.8 Avoid your pockets
The first tip on our list is to keep your hands out of your pockets while standing in line before you are called by VO.
We put our hands in our pockets when we’re uncomfortable or unsure of ourselves. And as long as you have your
hands stuffed down your pant, that’s how other people will view you.
Instinctually we tend to hide our hands when we’re nervous; keeping your hands out in the open indicates
confidence and shows people you have nothing to hide. Also, recognize that putting your hands in your pockets
encourages slouching, which isn’t good. As an alternative, try putting your hands on your hips; it’s a far more
confident posture.
No.7 don’t fidget
Fidgeting is a clear sign of nervousness. A student, who can’t keep still, is a student who is worried about visa, tense
and certainly not confident. Your hands can be your worst enemies – fight to keep them still and steady. You can
definitely talk with your hands, but keep your gesticulations calm and under control. Also, when seated, avoid that
rapid leg-vibration thing that some students do.
Worldwide Edu Consultants
9000133866 “The Information Hub for Students” www.wweconline.com
No.6 Keep your eyes forward
Keeping your eyes level might be one of the trickiest ways to show confidence in body language during your visa
interview. When you’re walking towards VO, it’s often feels natural to lower your head slightly and watch your
step, but this posture communicates that you don’t want to engage in conversation or afraid of talking to VO. Keep
your chin up and your eyes forward look into VO’s eyes while walking.
No.5 Stand up straight with your shoulders back
Standing up straight is one of the most important tips to project confidence through body language during your F1
interview. It can be a challenge especially if you’ve been a sloucher all your life, but get over it. Standing up straight
is perhaps the most important means of communicating confidence. Concentrate on pushing your shoulders back
slightly when standing and walking. Nothing major, just a little. That one simple motion does wonders for your
posture. Again, don’t try on the day of interview it will look funny. Try it in front of the mirror – you’ll be surprised
how much more confident it makes you look.
Worldwide Edu Consultants
9000133866 “The Information Hub for Students” www.wweconline.com
No.4 Take wide steps
A confident student will never be described as “scurrying,” “creeping” or “sneaking,” so pay attention to the way
you walk when you are called. If you want to show confidence with body language you want to take large steps.
Wide steps make you seem purposeful and suggest a personal tranquility, which denotes confidence. When you
walk towards VO see to that you take wide steps. Not too wide…You know what I am talking about right?
No.3 Proper grooming
Grooming is an essential component of communicating confidence through body language. You want your hair, face
and even your smell to work for you, not against you. Don’t be afraid to experiment with new products to find the
ones that work for you couple of weeks before the interview. Cut your hair 4-5 days before your interview not the
day before or on the day of the interview.
Worldwide Edu Consultants
9000133866 “The Information Hub for Students” www.wweconline.com
No.2 Don’t cross your arms when standing
Crossing your arms during standing is a protective posture. VO does glance on people who are standing. So don’t
cross your arms. We do it when we’re cold, nervous or on guard. Your job is to look likeable, open and confident.
So relax a little and keep your arms uncrossed.
No.1 Smile
Confident students smile because they have nothing to worry about. Try this as an experiment: smile at someone as
you pass them on the street or walking around your college. Chances are good that they’ll smile back. Now wouldn’t
you like to use it during your F1 interview? As you walk towards VO give a smile (not a big one )
Worldwide Edu Consultants
9000133866 “The Information Hub for Students” www.wweconline.com
All these things matter during your visa interview. Practice this body language in everyday life
before your interview. See how your confidence level is after a week.
Ideas to Convince Visa Officer
• Show your confidence in your body language, speech and in answering VO
• Always look into VO’s eyes before answering
• To show confidence while answering you could move your hands within your body space.
• Your answers should be straight, simple and to the point in 1-2 sentences
• VO doesn’t have time to look into all your documents. So arrange your documents and identify your
documents with flaps.
• Your answers should be clearly structured .Go through top 50 questions in this document.
• Avoid giving unnecessary leads in your answers unless asked.
• Always be defensive in your speech. Never show your anger, frustration even if your visa is rejected.
• Take I-20 from good public schools. Don’t take I-20 from unknown, unreputed colleges. Just by looking at
the university VO know what the reputation of your university.
• Always provide a smile when answering. Not too big. OK
• Dress up to your best. Formal is the right attire for F1 visa for both Men’s and ladies. Remember you are
going for higher studies to US.
• Try to make VO job easier. Arrange your documents neatly and be ready to submit if asked.
• You have 2 minutes to convince VO. Every word you say must have a positive impact on the outcome of
your visa. So practice, practice and practice
• Tune your ears to hear the questions properly. Don’t ask to repeat questions
• Stand straight in the window. Don’t lean
• Develop eye contact at least 2 months prior to your F1 interview. Try with your siblings, friends, when
shopping etc…Bring that attitude…
Worldwide Edu Consultants
9000133866 “The Information Hub for Students” www.wweconline.com
How to dress up for F1 visa interview
Dress Your Best when going for F1 Interview:
Does it really make a difference how you dress for an F1 interview? In many cases, it does. Of course, there is no
written policy or immigration rules that describe how one should dress for F1interview. It’s better to be conservative
when it comes to dress code for F1 interview. This is your final chance and hurdle that will determine not only your
academic future, but pretty much your life.
Women’s F1 Interview Attire:
• Solid color, conservative suit (Professional Salwars available for Indian students with one side shawl, some
HR executives do wear such dress.) Saree not advisable for F1 interview
• Coordinated blouse
• Light colored lipsticks (light pink, very light red)
• Manicured nails and polish matches your lipstick color (light pink or very light red)
• Moderate shoes ,heels not more than 1 inch (color matches with your dress, black fits for all color)
• Limited jewelry (avoid nose piercing, flashy necklace).
• Neat, professional medium length hairstyle (not too short, not too long)
• Tan or light hosiery
• Sparse perfume
• Nice slim watch
• Professional file (dark brown leather matches pretty much for everything).Avoid colorful Files
Men’s F1 Interview Attire:
• Suit (solid color – navy or dark grey).Suit not really required if you live in hot region
• Long sleeve shirt (white or light blue coordinated with the suit)
• Belt(Black, dark brown, no big loops style)
• Tie (matching white or light blue shirt)
• Dark socks, conservative leather shoes
• Little or no jewelry (hand ring ok, bracelet & ear stud not acceptable)
• Neat, professional hairstyle (not too short or too long).Cut your hair 4-5 days before the Interview. Just
trim. Don’t do a summer cut. Light gel ok
• Neatly trimmed nails
• Professional file or Portfolio matching your dress (dark brown). Avoid colorful files
• Decent watch with leather strap (not Timex style sports watch)
• Make yourself fresh by having decent after shave and light perfume
Breath mint ok till enter consulate to make you fresh. This is not it. Your confidence level will show up when you
are sitting and when you stand on line. Yes, it does matter. Do you think VO did not watch you? I will write a
separate article on how to show your confidence in your body language before you are called. Visa officer does
watch every one before you go to window.